The US left is experiencing a massive wave of resurgence. The (self-)destruction of the Bernard Sanders campaign, the apocalyptic handling of COVID-19 and the reactionary uprising against a scientific pandemic response, and people facing the alienation of life under capitalism is creating a breaking point.  Some groups have literally doubled their membership in just a few short months, leading to a scramble to indoctrinate their cadre candidates in the sacred texts.

Competition to grab the eyeballs of potential recruits is fierce. Online, it is a competition for views on articles, attendees to webinars, and retweets on the most salacious hot takes of the day. Instead of selling a newspaper to spread the word, organizers cajole their acolytes into sharing pithy slogans and memes on social media. 

The business world is a decade ahead of the left in doing this by both glorifying the personal brand while codifying the content for people to send out. The most important thing in this paradigm is managing the perception of others to uphold the personal branding that is needed, and for the organizers, making it the path of least resistance to spread an appropriately cohesive message with larger organizational branding. 

This trend is completely destructive to creating lasting or systemic change because the maintenance of personal brand necessarily shifts from the means to the end. In a complete reversal of materialism, the way to change the structure is to manufacture an idealized superstructure on top of it. Rather than dismissing the ridiculous social media-centered dramas, it should be understood that this is part of a larger revisionist trend within the left to wear the cloak of the past to shield themselves against dealing with the reality. Ironic detachment is the most common response to If communism in Russia was the Soviet Government + electrification, communism in the US is theory + memes.

The bar has never been lower to be part of The Movement, checking in to your online webinar and paying your dues is the sacrifice to pay.
